Let's talk about asynchronous JavaScript in this section.
We're going to revisit what we spoke about in the first part of the course in our foundations where
we talked about the web API is about the idea of callbacks the event loop and how we were able to use
asynchronous web API as to have rich applications.
And what does async mean asynchronous simply means that we don't have a right now when we build modern
Web sites we don't have all the data initially do we.
I mean we have our 80 mile page our CSF page some javascript but as the page is being loaded we also
have to make a request maybe to a database maybe we need to make a request across the web to fetch some
third party API all of these require asynchronous code because it's information we don't have yet.
We need to get it.
We're simply saying to JavaScript Hey can you go find this out for me.
And when you're done with it come back and give me that information because JavaScript has no idea what
the worldwide web or internet is.
It's single threaded.
It's a programming language.
On the other hand the web browser or node j yes allows us to use a sync or asynchronous code so we can
interact with things outside the world of JavaScript and that is the solution asynchronous functions
are functions that we can execute later.
And in this section we're going to finalize our understanding of asynchronous javascript and also revisit
the problem that we saw in the first part of the course.
Remember this piece of code we had a set time out that would console log one is the loneliest number
with a delay of 0 seconds a set timeout that console logs 2 can be as bad as 1 in 10 milliseconds.
A promise that automatically results with high.
And then we console log that data which will be high.
Right over here and then we have a console log three so that when we run this we have this weird output
that we saw right we get three is a crowd as the first item.
And that makes sense right.
Because this whole process begins with the JavaScript engine reading our code saying Oh all right this
I'm calling the web API this I'm calling a web API.
This well I'm not sure what I'm doing here but this is asynchronous.
So we're going to come back to it and then we run this piece of code first.
Remember this diagram once our JavaScript engine sees something that is asynchronous or something like
timeout that is part of a web API we send it over to the web API and then the web API is going to do
something for us in the background when it's done with whatever it is such as a timeout or five seconds
it will add the callback or the function that we need to invoke into the callback Q And then the event
loop is going to check and see if our call stack is empty and our entire JavaScript file has been bred
once and then if it's empty it pops it onto the or it pushes it onto the call stack.
So the event loop simply monitors the call stack and the callback you and we've talked about this before
but then we had this problem right where we expect three is a crowd to get printed but next part gets
confusing.
Right.
For some reason the promised console log gets run first The program returns undefined.
So this entire JavaScript file has been read and then only then do we get this set timeout and then
this set timeout block now we're going to explore that and a few other interesting things about JavaScript
throughout the next couple of videos.
So hang in there it's gonna be another fun one.
I'll see on the next one.
Bye bye.